---
layout: post
category: random
title: Welcome!!! 
permalink: /welcome/
tags:
    - "2020"
    - personal
    - random rambling
    - family
    - self
    - fatherhood
    - children
    - relationships
---

For those who don't know yet, Sagnika and I are expecting our first baby in
January 2021.

This bit of news and the title of this piece should make perfect sense now but
I still want to explain why this article was needed. 

It is only by looking backward that I realize that we were kids when we got
married.  We got married with the expectation that it would be fun to stay
together.  Boy, were we naive back then. It was a bumpy ride, to say the least,
but we never forgot to enjoy the view. Our five years of marriage can be summed
up in one sentence as lots of food, lots of traveling, weekly quarrels, and
monthly threats of divorce.

Parenthood has always been on our horizon but we never felt we were qualified
or mature enough to have kids and take care of them. And then came the
lockdown, and with it came lots of time to think and analyze and debate.  But
as they say, `too much analysis causes paralysis`.  So one day the deed was
done and the seed was sown. For those of you under 18, the deed was of course
rays of light coming out of God's hands and the seed was his blessings bestowed
upon us granting us the gift of parenthood and eternal happiness. 

Once I came to know that we were pregnant, I did not know how to react. I was a
bit baffled, to be honest.  You see, in my mind, I am still in college.  The
first question that came to my mind was `how did this happen?` We had talked
about this at length but nothing prepares you for the moment you hear the news.
It was only after a couple of days that it dawned upon me that I was going to
be a dad and this was not a dream, that I felt calm and happy. This was in May
2020.

A lot of time has passed since then and I have had some time to think.  About a
lot of things.  Things like what kind of a parent I want to be.  What things I
want to teach my child. About things, I hope my child experiences. These are
not things that are easy to decide but finally, I think I know what I want them
to be. I know that things don't turn out exactly as we want them to be, but
there are a few promises and a few hopes that I have, which should stand the
test of time. Hence this letter to my, yet to be born, child.

Here it goes.

---

Dear Child,

The first thing I want you to know is that I and your mother love you very
much. I have never seen you yet but still, feel love for you quite strongly. I
don't remember the last time I cried out of joy and pure emotion and it also
doesn't go with my current image but I will most probably cry a little when I
first hold you in my arms. I will stop only when you cry out louder from
the realization that you have an ugly father.

I know that it will take time for us to communicate verbally but till then I
will communicate with you using random gibberish that I have learnt from
parents before me. You might think `"Dad, I just don't know the language yet
but I am not a chimpanzee. Why do you have to talk to me like that?"`.  Please
bear with me for I do not know any better, it is the first time for all three
of us. Even if you are tremendously frustrated by my behavior please be
considerate enough to smile now and then, it will make my day.

I do not wish to give you everything that you want, let that be clear from now
on, or the things I did not have as a child but I wish to teach you all that I
wish I knew earlier.  I want to teach you that there is a right and a wrong
answer to the question `What do you want to become when you grow up?`. Doctor,
engineer, lawyer, actor, etc are all wrong answers. The only right answer is
`I want to be happy`. Similarly, I don't wish for you to have just a house, a
shiny car, or a huge bank balance.  These things are good to have but what I
really hope you have is a purpose in life.

I will try my best to make you understand that is absolutely ok, even in this
polarized world, to disagree with someone and still be friends.  It is ok to
say no to all options present. It is ok to think differently. What is not ok is
to make friends with people who believe that the earth is flat or 5G mobile
towers are spreading coronavirus. These people might be under the influence of
highly potent drugs and might be dangerous but are definitely delusional.

I know that I will not be able to teach you everything or help you out in all
situations but you can count on me to be present for all events good or bad in
your life.  Then there will be things that are beyond everyone's control. I
hope that when you laugh, you do so heartily.  I hope you fall in love with
someone who feels deeply for you. I hope that when someone loves you are able
to reciprocate passionately.  I hope you have friends who are true. I hope you
have enough integrity to fight fiercely for your dreams.  I hope you are kind
to those less fortunate than you.

I hope you are able to realize that the nuances of a fine living are the things
that you don't need to show off on social media. That an evening alone with a
book or some soft music can be equally or more enjoyable than a loud party with
free-flowing drinks. That it is ok to sing a tuneless song or break into an
awkward dance if that makes you happy. I hope that you realize that good wine
is poetry in a bottle.  I hope that when you travel you choose a measly wooden
hut with a breathtaking view over a 5-star hotel in a big city with a huge tv.
I hope for a lot of things for you but most importantly, I hope, that you get
all those things that you hope for.

I want you to know that this world is not all good but it is still necessary to
go through hardships of being honest, just, and kind because at the end of the
the day you can sleep better knowing that you did your best.  You might not get
a lot of encouragement in following the right path, but believe me it will all
be worth it in the end.

To sum it all up, I am excited beyond crazy to meet you and can't wait any
longer to meet you in person.  I apologize in advance if the house we live in
is not as posh as the hospital room or as cozy as the amniotic fluid you are
floating in right now but I promise you this it will eventually get better.
The food will be better, the lighting will be better and there will be loads of
toys and all the love that you can hold in that tiny heart of yours.

Since I am unable to stress this point enough, I will say it again that I love
you very much and always will. Muaah.
